<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XIV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-14" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3>CHAPTER <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XIV</span>.</h3>
			<h4>THE EXPEDITIONS IN SEARCH OF FRANKLIN.</h4>
			<p>Wednesday, the 21st of May, the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Forward</i> resumed her perilous voyage, making her way dexterously through the packs and icebergs, thanks to steam, which is seldom used by explorers in polar seas; she seemed to sport among the moving masses; one would have said she felt the hand of a skilled master, and that, like a horse under a skilful rider, she obeyed the thought of her captain.</p>
			<p>The weather grew warmer. At six o’clock in the morning the thermometer stood at 26°, at six in the evening at 29°, and at midnight at 25°; the wind was light from the southeast.</p>
			<p>Thursday, at about three o’clock in the morning, the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Forward</i> arrived in sight of Possession Bay, on the American shore, at the entrance of Lancaster Sound; soon Cape Burney came into sight. A few Eskimo came out to the ship; but Hatteras could not stop to speak with them.</p>
			<p>The peaks of Byam Martin, which rise above Cape Liverpool, were passed on the left, and they soon disappeared in the evening mist; this hid from them Cape Hay, which has a very slight elevation, and so is frequently confounded with ice about the shore, a circumstance which very often renders the determination of the coastline in polar regions very difficult.</p>
			<p>Puffins, ducks, and white gulls appeared in great numbers. By observation the latitude was 74° 1′, and the longitude, according to the chronometer, 77° 15′.</p>
			<p>The two mountains, Catherine and Elizabeth, raised their snowy heads above the clouds.</p>
			<p>At ten o’clock on Friday Cape Warrender was passed on the right side of the sound, and on the left Admiralty Inlet, a bay which has never been fully explored by navigators, who are always hastening westward. The sea ran rather high, and the waves often broke over the bows, covering the deck with small fragments of ice. The land on the north coast presented a strange appearance with its high, flat tablelands sparkling beneath the sun’s rays.</p>
			<p>Hatteras would have liked to skirt these northern lands, in order to reach the sooner Beechey Island and the entrance of Wellington Channel; but, much to his chagrin, the bank-ice obliged him to take only the passes to the south.</p>
			<p>Hence, on the 26th of May, in the midst of a fog and a snowstorm, the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Forward</i> found herself off Cape York; a lofty, steep mountain was soon recognized; the weather got a little clearer, and at midday the sun appeared long enough to permit an observation to be taken: latitude 74° 4′, and longitude 84° 23′. The <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Forward</i> was at the end of Lancaster Sound.</p>
			<p>Hatteras showed the doctor on the chart the route he had taken and that which he was to follow. At that time the position of the brig was interesting.</p>
			<p>“I should have liked to be farther north,” he said, “but it was impossible; see, here is our exact position.”</p>
			<p>The captain pointed to a spot near Cape York.</p>
			<p>“We are in the middle of this open space, exposed to every wind; into it open Lancaster Sound, Barrow Strait, Wellington Channel, and Regent’s Inlet; here, of necessity, come all northern explorers.”</p>
			<p>“Well,” answered the doctor, “so much the worse for them; it is indeed an open space, where four roads meet, and I don’t see any signpost to point out the right way! What did Parry, Ross, and Franklin do?”</p>
			<p>“They didn’t do anything in particular; they let themselves be governed by circumstances; they had no choice, I can assure you; at one time Barrow Strait would be closed against one, and the next year it would be open for another; again the ship would be irresistibly driven towards Regent’s Inlet. In this way we have at last been able to learn the geography of these confused seas.”</p>
			<p>“What a strange region!” said the doctor, gazing at the chart. “How everything is divided and cut up, without order or reason! It seems as if all the land near the Pole were divided in this way in order to make the approach harder, while in the other hemisphere it ends in smooth, regular points, like Cape Horn or the Cape of Good Hope, and the Indian peninsula! Is it the greater rapidity at the equator which has thus modified things, while the land lying at the extremity, which was fluid at the beginning of the world, could not condense and unite as elsewhere, on account of slower rotation?”</p>
			<p>“That may be, for there is a reason for everything, and nothing happens without a cause, which God sometimes lets students find out; so, Doctor, find it out if you can.”</p>
			<p>“I shall not waste too much time over it, Captain. But what is this fierce wind?” added the doctor, wrapping himself up well.</p>
			<p>“The north-wind is the common one, and delays our progress.”</p>
			<p>“Still it ought to blow the ice toward the south, and leave our way free.”</p>
			<p>“It ought to, Doctor, but the wind doesn’t always do what it ought to. See, that ice looks impenetrable. We shall try to reach Griffith Island, then to get around Cornwallis Island to reach Queen’s Channel, without going through Wellington Channel. And yet I am anxious to touch at Beechey Island to get some more coal.”</p>
			<p>“How will you do that?” asked the astonished doctor.</p>
			<p>“Easily; by order of the Admiralty, a great amount has been placed on this island, to supply future expeditions, and although Captain MacClintock took some in 1859, I can assure you there is still some left for us.”</p>
			<p>“In fact, these regions have been explored for fifteen years, and until certain proof of Franklin’s death was received, the Admiralty always kept five or six ships cruising in these waters. If I’m not mistaken, Griffith Island, which I see in the middle of the open space, has become a general rendezvous for explorers.”</p>
			<p>“True, Doctor, and Franklin’s ill-fated expedition has been the means of our learning so much about these parts.”</p>
			<p>“Exactly; for there have been a great many expeditions since 1845. It was not till 1848 that there was any alarm about the continued nonappearance of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Erebus</i> and the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Terror</i>, Franklin’s two ships. Then the admiral’s old friend, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Richardson, seventy years of age, went through Canada, and descended Coppermine River to the Polar Sea; on the other side, James Ross, in command of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Enterprise</i> and the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Investigator</i>, sailed from Upernavik in 1848, and reached Cape York, where we are now. Every day he threw overboard a cask containing papers telling where he was; during fogs he fired cannon; at night he burned signal-fires and sent off rockets, carrying always but little sail; finally, he wintered at Leopold’s Harbor in 1848⁠–⁠49; there he caught a large number of white foxes; he had put on their necks copper collars on which was engraved a statement of the position of the ship and where supplies had been left, and he drove them away in every direction; then, in the spring, he explored the coast of North Somerset on sledges, amid dangers and privations which disabled nearly all his men. He built cairns, enclosing copper cylinders with instructions to the absent expedition; during his absence, Lieutenant MacClure explored fruitlessly the northern coast of Barrow Strait. It is noteworthy, Captain, that James Ross had among his officers two men who afterwards became celebrated⁠—MacClure, who found the Northwest Passage, and MacClintock, who found the last remains of the Franklin expedition.”</p>
			<p>“Two good and brave captains, two brave Englishmen; go on, Doctor, with this account which you know so well; there is always something to be learned from the account of bold adventurers.”</p>
			<p>“Well, to conclude with James Ross, I have only to add that he tried to go farther west from Melville Island; but he nearly lost his ships, and being caught in the ice he was carried, against his will, to Baffin’s Bay.”</p>
			<p>“Carried,” said Hatteras, frowning⁠—“carried against his will!”</p>
			<p>“He had discovered nothing,” resumed the doctor; “it was only after 1850 that English ships were always exploring there, when a reward of twenty thousand pounds was offered to anyone who should discover the crews of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Erebus</i> and <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Terror</i>. Already, in 1848, Captains Kellet and Moore, in command of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Herald</i> and the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Plover</i>, tried to make their way through by Bering Strait. I ought to say that the winter of 1850⁠–⁠51, Captain Austin passed at Cornwallis Island; Captain Penny, with the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Assistance</i> and <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Resolute</i>, explored Wellington Channel; old John Ross, who discovered the magnetic pole, started in his yacht, the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Felix</i>, in search of his friend; the brig <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Prince Albert</i> made her first voyage at the expense of Lady Franklin; and, finally, two American ships, sent out by Grinnell, under Captain Haven, carried beyond Wellington Channel, were cast into Lancaster Sound. It was during this year that MacClintock, Austin’s lieutenant, pushed on to Melville Island and to Cape Dundas, the extreme points reached by Parry in 1819, and on Beechey Island were found traces of Franklin’s wintering there in 1845.”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” answered Hatteras, “three of his sailors were buried there, three fortunate men!”</p>
			<p>“From 1851 to 1852,” continued the doctor, with a gesture of agreement, “we find the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Prince Albert</i> making a second attempt with the French lieutenant, Bellot; he winters at Batty Bay in Prince Regent’s Sound, explores the southwest of Somerset, and reconnoitres the coast as far as Cape Walker. Meanwhile, the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Enterprise</i> and <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Investigator</i>, having returned to England, came under the command of Collinson and MacClure, and they rejoined Kellet and Moore at Bering Strait; while Collinson returned to winter at Hong-Kong, MacClure went on, and after three winters, 1850⁠–⁠51, 1851⁠–⁠52, and 1852⁠–⁠53, he discovered the Northwest Passage without finding any traces of Franklin. From 1852 to 1853, a new expedition, consisting of three sailing-vessels, the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Assistance</i>, the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Resolute</i>, the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">North Star</i>, and two steam-vessels, the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Pioneer</i> and the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Intrepid</i>, started out under the orders of Sir Edward Belcher, with Captain Kellet second in command; Sir Edward visited Wellington Channel, wintered in Northumberland Bay, and explored the coast, while Kellet, pushing on as far as Brideport on Melville Island, explored that region without success. But then it was rumored in England that two ships, abandoned in the ice, had been seen not far from New Caledonia. At once Lady Franklin fitted out the little screw-steamer <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Isabella</i>, and Captain Inglefield, after ascending Baffin’s Bay to Victoria Point, at the eightieth parallel, returned to Beechey Island with equal unsuccess. At the beginning of 1855 the American Grinnell defrays the expense of a new expedition, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Kane, trying to reach the Pole⁠—”</p>
			<p>“But he did not succeed,” cried Hatteras with violence, “and thank God he did not! What he did not do, we shall!”</p>
			<p>“I know it, Captain,” answered the doctor, “and I only speak of it on account of its connection with the search for Franklin. Besides, it accomplished nothing. I nearly forgot to say that the Admiralty, regarding Beechey Island as a general rendezvous, ordered the steamer <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Phoenix</i>, Captain Inglefield, in 1853, to carry provisions there; he sailed with Lieutenant Bellot, who for the second, and last, time offered his services to England; we can get full details about the catastrophe, for Johnson, our boatswain, was eyewitness of this sad affair.”</p>
			<p>“Lieutenant Bellot was a brave Frenchman,” said Hatteras, “and his memory is honored in England.”</p>
			<p>“Then,” resumed the doctor, “the ships of Belcher’s squadron began to return one by one; not all, for Sir Edward had to abandon the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Assistance</i> in 1854, as McClure had the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Investigator</i> in 1853. Meanwhile <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Rae, in a letter dated July 29, 1854, written from Repulse Bay, gave information that the Eskimo of King William’s Land had in their possession different objects belonging to the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Erebus</i> and <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Terror</i>; then there was no doubt possible about the fate of the expedition; the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Phoenix</i>, the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">North Star</i>, and the ship of Collinson returned to England; there was then no English ship in these waters. But if the government seemed to have lost all hope, Lady Franklin did not despair, and with what was left of her fortune she fitted out the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Fox</i>, commanded by MacClintock; he set sail in 1857, wintered about where you made yourself known to us, Captain; he came to Beechey Island, August 11, 1858; the next winter he passed at Bellot Sound; in February, 1859, he began his explorations anew; on the 6th of May he found the document which left no further doubt as to the fate of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Erebus</i> and <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Terror</i>, and returned to England at the end of the same year. That is a complete account of all that has been done in these regions during the last fifteen years; and since the return of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Fox</i>, no ship has ventured among these dangerous waters!”</p>
			<p>“Well, we shall try it!” said Hatteras.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
