<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>II: An Unexpected Letter</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-1-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">An Unexpected Letter</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>This is a copy of the letter received by Richard Shandon eight months previously:⁠—</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Aberdeen, <time datetime="1859-08-02">August 2, 1859</time>.</p>
				</header>
				<p><span epub:type="z3998:recipient"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Richard Shandon</span>, Liverpool.</p>
				<p><b epub:type="z3998:salutation">Sir</b>⁠—This letter is to advise you of a remittance of £16,000, deposited with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Messrs.</abbr> Marcuart &amp; <abbr>Co.</abbr>, bankers, at Liverpool. Enclosed you will find a series of drafts, signed by me, which will enable you to draw upon <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Messrs.</abbr> Marcuart &amp; <abbr>Co.</abbr> to the amount mentioned above.</p>
				<p>You do not know me. No matter; I know you, and that is enough. I offer you the position of mate on board of the brig <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Forward</i>, for a voyage which may be long and perilous.</p>
				<p>If you decline, well and good. If you accept, five hundred pounds will be assigned you as salary, and at the end of each year of the voyage your pay will be increased one tenth.</p>
				<p>The brig <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Forward</i> does not exist. You will be obliged to have it built so that it will be possible to set to sea in the beginning of April, 1860, at the latest. Enclosed is a drawing with estimates. You will follow them exactly. The ship will be built in the stocks of Scott &amp; <abbr>Co.</abbr>, who will arrange everything with you.</p>
				<p>I beg of you to be specially cautious in selecting the crew of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Forward</i>; it will consist of a captain (myself), a mate (you), a second mate, a boatswain, two engineers, an ice-master, eight sailors, two stokers, in all eighteen men, including <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Clawbonny of this city, who will join you at the proper time.</p>
				<p>Those who are shipped on board of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Forward</i> must be Englishmen, independent, with no family ties, single and temperate; for the use of spirits, and even of beer, will be strictly forbidden on shipboard: the men must be ready to undertake and endure everything.</p>
				<p>In your selection you will prefer those of a sanguine temperament, and so inclined to maintain a higher degree of animal heat.</p>
				<p>You will offer the crew five times their usual pay, to be increased one tenth at the end of each year. At the end of the voyage each one shall receive five hundred pounds, and you yourself two thousand. The requisite sum shall be deposited with the above-named <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Messrs.</abbr> Marcuart &amp; <abbr class="eoc">Co.</abbr></p>
				<p>The voyage will be long and difficult, but one sure to bring renown. You need not hesitate, then, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Shandon.</p>
				<p>Send your answer to the initials <abbr epub:type="z3998:personal-name">K. Z.</abbr>, at Gothenburg, Sweden, poste restante.</p>
				<footer>
					<div epub:type="z3998:postscript">
						<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">P.S.</abbr> On the 15th of February next you will receive a large Danish dog, with hanging lips, of a dark tawny color, with black stripes running crosswise. You will find place for him on board, and you will feed him on barley bread mixed with a broth of lard. You will acknowledge the receipt of this dog by a letter to the same initials at Leghorn, Italy.</p>
						<p>The captain of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Forward</i> will appear and make himself known at the proper time. As you are about setting sail you will receive new instructions.</p>
					</div>
					<p><span epub:type="z3998:sender z3998:signature"><abbr epub:type="z3998:personal-name">K. Z.</abbr></span>,<br/>
					Captain of the Forward.</p>
				</footer>
			</blockquote>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
