<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XVI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-16" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3>CHAPTER <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XVI</span>.</h3>
			<h4>THE MAGNETIC POLE.</h4>
			<p>As Hatteras drew near this sound he felt his anxiety redoubling; in fact, the success of his expedition was at stake; so far he had done nothing more than his predecessors, the most successful of whom, MacClintock, had consumed fifteen months in reaching this spot; but that was little, indeed nothing, if he could not make Bellot Sound; being unable to return, he would be kept a prisoner until the next year.</p>
			<p>Hence he took upon himself the care of examining the coast; he went up to the lookout, and on Saturday passed many hours there.</p>
			<p>The crew were all acquainted with the situation of the ship; an unbroken silence reigned on board; the engine was slackened; the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Forward</i> ran as near shore as possible; the coast was lined with ice which the warmest summers could not melt; a practised eye was needed to make out an entrance through them.</p>
			<p>Hatteras was comparing his charts with the coast-line. The sun having appeared for a moment at noon, Shandon and Wall took an observation, the result of which was at once told him.</p>
			<p>There was half a day of anxiety for all. But suddenly, at about two o’clock, these words were shouted from aloft⁠—</p>
			<p>“Head to the west, and put on all steam.”</p>
			<p>The brig obeyed at once, turning to the point directed; the screw churned the water, and the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Forward</i> plunged under a full head of steam between two swiftly running ice-streams.</p>
			<p>The path was found; Hatteras came down to the quarter-deck, and the ice-master went aloft.</p>
			<p>“Well, Captain,” said the doctor, “we have entered this famous sound at last!”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” answered Hatteras; “but entering is not all, we have got to get out of it too.”</p>
			<p>And with these words he went to his cabin.</p>
			<p>“He is right,” thought the doctor; “we are in a sort of trap, without much space to turn about in, and if we had to winter here!⁠—well, we shouldn’t be the first to do it, and where others lived through it, there is no reason why we should not!”</p>
			<p>The doctor was right. It was at this very place, in a little sheltered harbor called Port Kennedy by MacClintock himself, that the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Fox</i> wintered in 1858. At that moment it was easy to recognize the lofty granite chains, and the steep beaches on each side.</p>
			<p>Bellot Sound, a mile broad and seventeen long, with a current running six or seven knots, is enclosed by mountains of an estimated height of sixteen hundred feet; it separates North Somerset from Boothia; it is easy to see that there is not too much sailing room there. The <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Forward</i> advanced carefully, but still she advanced; tempests are frequent in this narrow pass, and the brig did not escape their usual violence; by Hatteras’s orders, all the topsail-yards were lowered, and the topmasts also; in spite of everything the ship labored fearfully; the heavy seas kept the deck continually deluged with water; the smoke flew eastward with inconceivable rapidity; they went on almost at haphazard through the floating ice; the barometer fell to 29°; it was hard to stay on deck, so most of the men were kept below to spare them unnecessary exposure.</p>
			<p>Hatteras, Johnson, and Shandon remained on the quarter-deck, in spite of the whirlwinds of snow and rain; and the doctor, who had just asked himself what was the most disagreeable thing to be done at that time, soon joined them there; they could not hear, and hardly could they see, one another; so he kept his thoughts to himself.</p>
			<p>Hatteras tried to pierce the dense cloud of mist, for, according to his calculation, they should be through the strait at six o’clock of the evening. At that time exit seemed closed, and Hatteras was obliged to stop and anchor to an iceberg; but steam was kept up all night.</p>
			<p>The weather was terrible. Every moment the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Forward</i> threatened to snap her cables; there was danger, too, lest the mountain should be driven by the wind and crush the brig. The officers kept on the alert, owing to their extreme anxiety; besides the snow, large lumps of frozen spray were blown about by the hurricane like sharp arrows.</p>
			<p>The temperature arose strangely in that terrible night; the thermometer marked 57°; and the doctor, to his great surprise, thought he noticed some flashes of lightning followed by distant thunder. This seemed to corroborate the testimony of Scoresby, who noticed the same phenomenon above latitude 65°. Captain Parry also observed it in 1821.</p>
			<p>Towards five o’clock in the morning the weather changed with singular rapidity; the temperature fell to the freezing-point; the wind shifted to the north and grew quiet. The western opening of the strait could be seen, but it was entirely closed. Hatteras gazed anxiously at the coast, asking himself if there really were any exit.</p>
			<p>Nevertheless, the brig put out slowly into the ice-streams, while the ice crushed noisily against her bows; the packs at this time were six or seven feet thick; it was necessary carefully to avoid them, for if the ship should try to withstand them, it ran the risk of being lifted half out of the water and cast on her beam-ends.</p>
			<p>At noon, for the first time, a magnificent solar phenomenon could be observed, a halo with two parhelions; the doctor observed it, and took its exact dimensions; the exterior arc was only visible for about thirty degrees each side of the horizontal diameter; the two images of the sun were remarkably clear; the colors within the luminous area were, going toward the outside, red, yellow, green, faint blue, and last of all white, gently fading away, without any sharp line of termination.</p>
			<p>The doctor remembered Thomas Young’s ingenious theory about these meteors; he supposed that certain clouds composed of prisms of ice are hanging in the air; the sun’s rays falling on these prisms are refracted at angles of sixty and ninety degrees. The halos can only be formed in a clear sky. The doctor thought this an ingenious explanation.</p>
			<p>Sailors, who are familiar with northern seas, consider this phenomenon a forerunner of heavy snow. If this should be the case, the position of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Forward</i> was very critical. Hence Hatteras resolved to push on; during the rest of that day and the next night he took no rest, but examined the horizon through his glass, entering every inlet, and losing no opportunity to get out of the strait.</p>
			<p>But in the morning he was compelled to stop before the impenetrable ice. The doctor joined him on the quarter-deck. Hatteras led him clear aft where they could talk without fear of being overheard.</p>
			<p>“We are caught,” said Hatteras. “It’s impossible to go on.”</p>
			<p>“Impossible?” said the doctor.</p>
			<p>“Impossible! All the powder on board the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Forward</i> would not open a quarter of a mile to us.”</p>
			<p>“What are we to do?” asked the doctor.</p>
			<p>“I don’t know. Curse this unlucky year!”</p>
			<p>“Well, Captain, if we must go into winter-quarters, we’ll do it. As well here as anywhere else!”</p>
			<p>“Of course,” said Hatteras in a low voice, “but we ought not to be going into winter-quarters, especially in the month of June. It is demoralizing, and bad for the health. The spirits of the crew are soon cast down during this long rest among real sufferings. So I had made up my mind to winter at a latitude nearer the Pole.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, but, unluckily, Baffin’s Bay was closed.”</p>
			<p>“Any one else would have found it open,” cried Hatteras; “that American, that⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Come, Hatteras,” said the doctor, purposely interrupting him, “it’s now only the 5th of June; we should not despair; a path may open before us suddenly; you know the ice often breaks into separate pieces, even when the weather is calm, as if it were driven apart by some force of repulsion; at any moment we may find the sea free.”</p>
			<p>“Well, if that happens, we shall take advantage of it. It is not impossible that beyond Bellot Strait we might get northward through Peel Sound or MacClintock Channel, and then⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Captain,” said James Wall, approaching, “the ice threatens to tear away the rudder.”</p>
			<p>“Well,” answered Hatteras, “never mind; I sha’n’t unship it; I want to be ready at any hour, day or night. Take every precaution, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Wall, and keep the ice off; but don’t unship it, you understand.”</p>
			<p>“But⁠—” began Wall.</p>
			<p>“I don’t care to hear any remarks, sir,” said Hatteras, severely. “Go!”</p>
			<p>Wall returned to his post.</p>
			<p>“Ah!” said Hatteras, angrily, “I would give five years of my life to be farther north! I don’t know any more dangerous place; and besides, we are so near the magnetic pole that the compass is of no use; the needle is inactive, or always shifting its direction.”</p>
			<p>“I confess,” said the doctor, “that it is not plain sailing; but still, those who undertook it were prepared for such dangers, and there is no need to be surprised.”</p>
			<p>“Ah, Doctor! the crew has changed very much, and you have seen that the officers have begun to make remarks. The high pay offered the sailors induced them to ship; but they have their bad side, for as soon as they are off they are anxious to get back. Doctor, I have no encouragement in my undertaking, and if I fail, it won’t be the fault of such or such a sailor, but of the ill-will of certain officers. Ah, they’ll pay dearly for it!”</p>
			<p>“You are exaggerating, Hatteras.”</p>
			<p>“Not at all! Do you fancy the crew are sorry for the obstacles we are meeting? On the contrary, they hope I shall be compelled to abandon my plans. So they do not murmur, and when the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Forward</i> is headed for the south, it will be the same thing. Fools! They imagine they are returning to England! But when I’m turned towards the north, you will see a difference! I swear solemnly that no living being shall make me swerve from my course! Give me a passage, an opening through which my brig can go, and I shall take it, if I have to leave half her sheathing behind!”</p>
			<p>The desires of the captain were destined to be satisfied in a measure. As the doctor had foretold, there was a sudden change in the evening; under some influence of the wind, the ice-fields separated; the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Forward</i> pushed on boldly, breaking the ice with her steel prow; all the night they advanced, and towards six o’clock they were clear of Bellot Strait.</p>
			<p>But great was Hatteras’s anger at finding the way to the north closed! He was able to hide his despair; and as if the only open path were the one of his choice, he turned the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Forward</i> towards Franklin Sound. Being unable to go up Peel Sound, he determined to go around Prince of Wales Land, to reach MacClintock Channel. But he knew that Shandon and Wall could not be deceived, and were conscious of the failure of his hopes.</p>
			<p>Nothing especial happened on the 6th of June; snow fell, and the prophecy of the halo came true.</p>
			<p>For thirty-six hours the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Forward</i> followed the sinuosities of the coast of Boothia, without reaching Prince of Wales Land. Hatteras put on all steam, burning his coal extravagantly; he still intended to get further supplies on Beechey Island; on Thursday he arrived at Franklin Sound, and he still found the way northward impassable.</p>
			<p>His position was a desperate one; he could not return; the ice pushed him onward, and he saw his path forever closing behind him, as if there were no open sea where he had passed but an hour before.</p>
			<p>Hence, not only was the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Forward</i> unable to go toward the north, but she could not stop for a moment lest she should be imprisoned, and she fled before the ice like a ship before a storm.</p>
			<p>Friday, June 7th, she arrived near the coast of Boothia, at the entrance of James Ross Sound, which had to be avoided because its only exit is to the west, close to the shore of America.</p>
			<p>The observations taken at noon showed them to be in latitude 70° 5′ 17″, and longitude 96° 46′ 45″; when the doctor heard this he examined his chart, and found that they were at the magnetic pole, at the very point where James Ross, the nephew of Sir John, came to determine its situation.</p>
			<p>The land was low near the coast, and it rose only about sixty feet at the distance of a mile from the sea.</p>
			<p>The boiler of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Forward</i> needed cleaning; the captain anchored his ship to a field of ice, and gave the doctor leave to go ashore with the boatswain. For himself, being indifferent to everything outside of his own plans, he shut himself up in his cabin, and studied the chart of the Pole.</p>
			<p>The doctor and his companion easily reached land; the first-named carried a compass for his experiments; he wanted to test the work of James Ross; he easily made out the mound of stones erected by him; he ran towards it; an opening in the cairn let him see a tin box in which James Ross had placed an account of his discovery. No living being had visited this lonely spot for thirty years.</p>
			<p>At this place a needle suspended as delicately as possible assumed a nearly vertical position under the magnetic influence; hence the centre of attraction was near, if not immediately beneath, the needle.</p>
			<p>The doctor made the experiment with all care. But if James Ross, owing to the imperfection of his instruments, found a declination of only 89° 50′, the real magnetic point is found within a minute of this spot. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Clawbonny was more fortunate, and at a little distance from there he found a declination of 90°.</p>
			<p>“This is exactly the magnetic pole of the earth!” he cried, stamping on the ground.</p>
			<p>“Just here?” asked Johnson.</p>
			<p>“Precisely here, my friend!”</p>
			<p>“Well, then,” resumed the boatswain, “we must give up all the stories of a magnetic mountain or large mass.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, Johnson,” answered the doctor, laughing, “those are empty hypotheses! As you see, there is no mountain capable of attracting ships, of drawing their iron from them anchor after anchor, bolt after bolt! and your shoes here are as light as anywhere in the world.”</p>
			<p>“But how do you explain⁠—”</p>
			<p>“There is no explanation, Johnson; we are not wise enough for that. But what is mathematically certain is that the magnetic pole is at this very spot!”</p>
			<p>“Ah, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Clawbonny, how glad the captain would be to say as much of the North Pole!”</p>
			<p>“He’ll say it, Johnson; he’ll say it!”</p>
			<p>“God grant it!” was the answer.</p>
			<p>The doctor and his companion raised a cairn at the spot where they tried their experiment, and the signal for their return being made, they returned to the ship at five o’clock of the evening.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
