<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>III: Seventeen Days of Land Journey</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-2" id="chapter-2-3" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">Seventeen Days of Land Journey</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>This new incident, these first words which Altamont uttered, had completely altered the situation of the castaways; but just now they had been far from any possible aid, without a reasonable chance of reaching Baffin’s Bay, threatened with starvation on a journey too long for their wearied bodies, and now, within four hundred miles from their snow-house, there was a ship which offered them bounteous supplies, and perhaps the means of continuing their bold course to the Pole. Hatteras, the doctor, Johnson, and Bell, all began to take heart after having been so near despair; they were nearly wild with joy.</p>
			<p>But Altamont’s account was still incomplete, and, after a few moments’ repose, the doctor resumed his talk with him; he framed his questions in such a way that a simple sign of the head or a motion of the eyes would suffice for an answer.</p>
			<p>Soon he made out that the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Porpoise</i> was an American bark from New York, that it had been caught in the ice with a large supply of food and fuel; and, although she lay on her beam-ends, she must have withstood the ice, and it would be possible to save her cargo.</p>
			<p>Two months before, Altamont and the crew had abandoned her, carrying the launch upon a sledge; they wanted to get to Smith’s Sound, find a whaling-vessel, and be carried in her to America; but gradually fatigue and disease had fallen upon them, and they fell aside on the way. At last only the captain and two sailors were left of a crew of thirty men, and Altamont’s life was the result of what was really a miracle.</p>
			<p>Hatteras wanted to find out from the American what he was doing in these high latitudes.</p>
			<p>Altamont managed to make him understand that he had been caught in the ice and carried by it without possibility of resisting it.</p>
			<p>Hatteras asked him anxiously for what purpose he was sailing.</p>
			<p>Altamont gave them to understand that he had been trying the Northwest Passage.</p>
			<p>Hatteras did not persist, and asked no other question of the sort.</p>
			<p>The doctor then began to speak.</p>
			<p>“Now,” he said, “all our efforts should be directed to finding the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Porpoise</i>; instead of struggling to Baffin’s Bay, we may, by means of a journey only two thirds as long, reach a ship which will offer us all the resources necessary for wintering.”</p>
			<p>“There’s nothing more to be done,” said Bell.</p>
			<p>“I should add,” said the boatswain, “that we should not lose a moment; we should calculate the length of our journey by the amount of our supplies, instead of the other and usual way, and be off as soon as possible.”</p>
			<p>“You are right, Johnson,” said the doctor; “if we leave tomorrow, Tuesday, February 26th, we ought to reach the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Porpoise</i> March 15th, at the risk of starving to death. What do you think of that, Hatteras?”</p>
			<p>“Let us make our preparations at once,” said the captain, “and be off. Perhaps we shall find the way longer than we suppose.”</p>
			<p>“Why so?” asked the doctor. “This man seemed certain of the situation of his ship.”</p>
			<p>“But,” answered Hatteras, “supposing the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Porpoise</i> has been drifting as the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Forward</i> did?”</p>
			<p>“True,” said the doctor, “that’s not unlikely.”</p>
			<p>Johnson and Bell had nothing to urge against the possibility of a drift of which they had themselves been victims.</p>
			<p>But Altamont, who was listening to the conversation, gave the doctor to understand that he wished to speak. After an effort of about a quarter of an hour, Clawbonny made out that the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Porpoise</i> was lying on a bed of rocks, and so could not have drifted away. This information calmed the anxiety of the Englishmen; still it deprived them of their hope of returning to Europe, unless Bell should be able to build a small boat out of the timbers of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Porpoise</i>. However that might be, it was now of the utmost importance that they should reach the wreck.</p>
			<p>The doctor put one more question to the American, namely, whether he had found an open sea at latitude 83°.</p>
			<p>“No,” answered Altamont.</p>
			<p>There the conversation stopped. They began at once to prepare for departure; Bell and Johnson first began to see about the sledge, which needed complete repairing. Since they had plenty of wood, they made the uprights stronger, availing themselves of the experience of their southern trip. They had learned the dangers of this mode of transport, and since they expected to find plenty of deep snow, the runners were made higher.</p>
			<p>On the inside Bell made a sort of bed, covered with the canvas of the tent, for the American; the provisions, which were unfortunately scanty, would not materially augment the weight of the sledge, but still they made up for that by loading it with all the wood it could carry.</p>
			<p>The doctor, as he packed all the provisions, made out a very careful list of their amount; he calculated that each man could have three quarters of a ration for a journey of three weeks. A whole ration was set aside for the four dogs which should draw it. If Duke aided them, he was to have a whole ration.</p>
			<p>These preparations were interrupted by the need of sleep and rest, which they felt at seven o’clock in the evening; but before going to bed they gathered around the stove, which was well filled with fuel, and these poor men luxuriated in more warmth than they had enjoyed for a long time; some pemmican, a few biscuits, and several cups of coffee soon put them in good-humor, especially when their hopes had been so unexpectedly lighted up. At seven in the morning they resumed work, and finished it at three in the afternoon. It was already growing dark. Since January 31st the sun had appeared above the horizon, but it gave only a pale and brief light; fortunately the moon would rise at half past six, and with this clear sky it would make their path plain. The temperature, which had been growing lower for several days, fell at last to −33°.</p>
			<p>The time for leaving came. Altamont received the order with joy, although the jolting of the sledge would increase his sufferings; he told the doctor that medicine against the scurvy would be found on board of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Porpoise</i>. He was carried to the sledge and placed there as comfortably as possible; the dogs, including Duke, were harnessed in; the travellers cast one last glance at the spot where the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Forward</i> had lain. A glow of rage passed over Hatteras’s face, but he controlled it at once, and the little band set out with the air very dry at first, although soon a mist came over them.</p>
			<p>Each one took his accustomed place, Bell ahead pointing out the way, the doctor and Johnson by the sides of the sledge, watching and lending their aid when it was necessary, and Hatteras behind, correcting the line of march.</p>
			<p>They went along tolerably quickly; now that the temperature was so low, the ice was hard and smooth for travel; the five dogs easily drew the sledge, which weighed hardly more than nine hundred pounds. Still, men and beasts panted heavily, and often they had to stop to take breath.</p>
			<p>Towards seven o’clock in the evening, the moon peered through mist on the horizon. Its rays threw out a light which was reflected from the ice; towards the northwest the ice-field looked like a perfectly smooth plain; not a hummock was to be seen. This part of the sea seemed to have frozen smooth like a lake.</p>
			<p>It was an immense, monotonous desert.</p>
			<p>Such was the impression that this spectacle made on the doctor’s mind, and he spoke of it to his companion.</p>
			<p>“You are right, Doctor,” answered Johnson; “it is a desert, but we need not fear dying of thirst.”</p>
			<p>“A decided advantage,” continued the doctor; “still, this immensity proves one thing to me, and that is that we are far distant from any land; in general, the proximity of land is indicated by a number of icebergs, and not one is to be seen near us.”</p>
			<p>“We can’t see very far for the fog,” said Johnson.</p>
			<p>“Without doubt; but since we started we have crossed a smooth field of which we cannot see the end.”</p>
			<p>“Do you know, Doctor, it’s a dangerous walk we are taking! We get used to it and don’t think of it, but we are walking over fathomless depths.”</p>
			<p>“You are right, my friend, but we need not fear being swallowed; with such cold as this the ice is very strong. Besides, it has a constant tendency to get thicker, for snow falls nine days out of ten, even in April, May, and June, and I fancy it must be something like thirty or forty feet thick.”</p>
			<p>“That is a comfort,” said Johnson.</p>
			<p>“In fact, we are very much better off than those who skate on the Serpentine, and who are in constant dread of falling through; we have no such fear.”</p>
			<p>“Has the resistance of ice been calculated?” asked the old sailor, who was always seeking information from the doctor.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” the latter answered: “everything almost that can be measured is now known, except human ambition! and is it not that which is carrying us towards the North Pole? But to return to your question, my answer is this. Ice two inches thick will bear a man; three and a half inches thick, a horse and rider; five inches thick, an eight-pound cannon; eight inches, a fully harnessed artillery-piece; and ten inches, an army, any number of men! Where we are now, the Liverpool Custom House or the Halls of Parliament in London could be built.”</p>
			<p>“One can hardly imagine such strength,” said Johnson; “but just now, Doctor, you spoke of snow falling nine days out of ten; that is true, but where does all the snow come from? The sea is all frozen, and I don’t see how the vapor can rise to form the clouds.”</p>
			<p>“A very keen observation, Johnson; but, in my opinion, the greatest part of the snow or rain which we receive in the polar regions is formed from the water of the seas in the temperate zones. One flake arose into the air under the form of vapor from some river in Europe, it helped make a cloud, and finally came here to be condensed; it is not impossible that we who drink it may be quenching our thirst at the rivers of our own country.”</p>
			<p>“That is true,” answered Johnson.</p>
			<p>At that moment Hatteras’s voice was heard directing their steps and interrupting their conversation. The fog was growing thicker, and making a straight line hard to follow.</p>
			<p>Finally the little band halted at about eight o’clock in the evening, after walking nearly fifteen miles; the weather was dry; the tent was raised, the fire lighted, supper cooked, and all rested peacefully.</p>
			<p>Hatteras and his companions were really favored by the weather. The following days brought no new difficulties, although the cold became extremely severe and the mercury remained frozen in the thermometer. If the wind had risen, no one could have withstood the temperature. The doctor was able to corroborate Parry’s observations, which he made during his journey to Melville Island; he said that a man comfortably dressed could walk safely in the open air exposed to great cold, if the air were only calm; but as soon as the slightest wind arose, a sharp pain was felt in the face, and an extreme headache which is soon followed by death. The doctor was very anxious, for a slight wind would have frozen the marrow in their bones.</p>
			<p>March 5th he observed a phenomenon peculiar to these latitudes: the sky was clear and thick with stars, and thick snow began to fall without any cloud being visible; the constellations shone through the flakes which fell regularly on the ice-field. This went on for about two hours, and stopped before the doctor had found a satisfactory explanation of its fall.</p>
			<p>The last quarter of the moon had then disappeared; total darkness reigned for seventeen hours out of the twenty-four; the travellers had to tie themselves together by a long cord, to avoid being separated; it was almost impossible for them to go in a straight line.</p>
			<p>Still, these bold men, although animated by an iron will, began to grow weary; their halts were more frequent, and yet they ought not to lose an hour, for their supplies were rapidly diminishing. Hatteras would often ascertain their position by observation of the moon and stars. As he saw the days pass by and the destination appear as remote as before, he would ask himself sometimes if the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Porpoise</i> really existed, whether the American’s brain might not have been deranged by his sufferings, or whether, through hate of the English, and seeing himself without resources, he did not wish to drag them with him to certain death.</p>
			<p>He expressed his fears to the doctor, who discouraged them greatly, but he readily understood the lamentable rivalry which existed between the American and English captains.</p>
			<p>“They are two men whom it will be hard to make agree,” he said to himself.</p>
			<p>March 14th, after journeying for sixteen days, they had only reached latitude 82°; their strength was exhausted, and they were still a hundred miles from the ship; to add to their sufferings, they had to bring the men down to a quarter-ration, in order to give the dogs their full supply.</p>
			<p>They could not depend on their shooting for food, for they had left only seven charges of powder and six balls; they had in vain fired at some white hares and foxes, which besides were very rare. None had been hit.</p>
			<p>Nevertheless, on the 18th, the doctor was fortunate enough to find a seal lying on the ice; he wounded him with several balls; the animal, not being able to escape through his hole in the ice, was soon slain. He was of very good size. Johnson cut him up skilfully, but he was so very thin that he was of but little use to the men, who could not make up their minds to drink his oil, like the Eskimo. Still the doctor boldly tried to drink the slimy fluid, but he could not do it. He preserved the skin of the animal, for no special reason, by a sort of hunter’s instinct, and placed it on the sledge.</p>
			<p>The next day, the 16th, they saw a few icebergs on the horizon. Was it a sign of a neighboring shore, or simply a disturbance of the ice? It was hard to say.</p>
			<p>When they had reached one of these hummocks, they dug in it with a snow-knife a more comfortable retreat than that afforded by the tent, and after three hours of exertion they were able to rest about their glowing stove.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
