<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XV: The Forward Driven Southward</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-1-15" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XV</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">The <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Forward</i> Driven Southward</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Towards evening the weather cleared up, and land was clearly to be seen between Cape Sepping and Cape Clarence, which juts out to the east, then to the south, and is connected to the mainland on the west by a low tongue of land. There was no ice at the entrance of Regent’s Sound; but it was densely massed beyond Leopold Harbor, as if to form an impassable barrier to the northward progress of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Forward</i>.</p>
			<p>Hatteras, who, although he carefully concealed his feelings, was exceedingly annoyed, had to blow out a way with powder in order to enter Leopold Harbor; he reached it at midday, on Sunday, May 27th; the brig was securely anchored to the large icebergs, which were as firm, solid, and hard as rock.</p>
			<p>At once the captain, followed by the doctor, Johnson, and his dog Duke, leaped out upon the ice and soon reached the land. Duke leaped about with joy; besides, since the captain had made himself known, he had become very sociable and very gentle, preserving his ill-temper for some of the crew, whom his master disliked as much as he did.</p>
			<p>The harbor was free from the ice which is generally forced there by the east-wind; the sharp peaks, covered with snow, looked like a number of white waves. The house and lantern, built by James Ross, were still in a tolerable state of preservation; but the provisions appeared to have been eaten by foxes, and even by bears, of which fresh traces were to be seen; part of the devastation was probably due to the hand of man, for some ruins of Eskimo huts were to be seen on the shores of the bay.</p>
			<p>The six tombs, enclosing six sailors of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Enterprise</i> and the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Investigator</i>, were recognizable by little mounds of earth; they had been respected by all, by both men and beasts.</p>
			<p>On first setting his foot on this northern earth, the doctor was really agitated; it would not be easy to describe the emotions one feels at the sight of these ruined houses, tents, huts, supplies, which nature preserves so perfectly in cold countries.</p>
			<p>“There,” said he to his companions⁠—“there is the spot which James Ross himself named Camp Refuge! If Franklin’s expedition had reached this spot, it would have been saved. Here is the engine which was taken out and left here, and the furnace which warmed the crew of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Prince Albert</i> in 1851; everything remains as it was left, and one might fancy that Kennedy, her captain, had sailed away from here yesterday. This is the launch that sheltered them for some days, for Kennedy was separated from his ship, and only saved by Lieutenant Bellot, who braved the cold of October to join him.”</p>
			<p>“A brave and excellent officer he was,” said Johnson. “I knew him.”</p>
			<p>While the doctor eagerly sought for traces of previous winterings there, Hatteras busied himself with collecting the scanty fragments of fuel and provisions which lay there. The next day was devoted to carrying them on board ship. The doctor explored the whole neighborhood, never going too far from the brig, and sketched the most remarkable views. The weather gradually grew milder; the snowdrifts began to melt. The doctor made a tolerably large collection of northern birds, such as gulls, divers, molly-nochtes, and eider-ducks, which resemble ordinary ducks, with a white back and breast, a blue belly, the top of the head blue, the rest of the plumage white, shaded with different tints of green; many of them had already plucked from their bellies the eiderdown, which both the male and the female devote to lining their nests. The doctor also saw great seals breathing at the surface of the water, but he was unable to draw one.</p>
			<p>In his wanderings he discovered the stone on which is engraved the following inscription:⁠—</p>
			<blockquote>
				<p>[<abbr>E</abbr> <abbr>I</abbr>]<br/>
				1849</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="continued">which marks the passage of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Enterprise</i> and <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Investigator</i>; he pushed on to Cape Clarence, to the spot where, in 1833, John and James Ross waited so impatiently for the ice to thaw. The earth was covered with the skulls and bones of animals, and traces of the dwellings of Eskimo were to be seen.</p>
			<p>The doctor thought of erecting a cairn at Leopold Harbor, and of leaving a letter there to indicate the passage of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Forward</i> and the aim of the expedition. But Hatteras formally objected; he did not wish to leave behind him any traces which might be of use to a rival. In spite of all he could say, the doctor was obliged to yield to the captain’s will. Shandon was ready enough to blame this obstinacy, for, in case of accident, no ship could have put out to the aid of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Forward</i>.</p>
			<p>Hatteras refused to comply. Having completed his preparations on Monday, he tried once more to go to the north through the ice, but, after dangerous efforts, he was obliged to descend again Regent’s Channel; he was utterly averse to remaining at Leopold’s Harbor, which is open one day and closed the next by the unheralded motion of the ice⁠—a frequent phenomenon in these seas, and one against which navigators have to be ever on their guard.</p>
			<p>If Hatteras kept his anxiety from the others, he was at heart very anxious; he wanted to go northward, and he was obliged to retreat to the south! Where would that bring him? Was he going as far back as Victoria Harbor in the Gulf of Boothia, where Sir John Ross wintered in 1833? Should he find Bellot Sound free at this time, and, by going around North Somerset, could he ascend through Peel Sound? Or should he, like his predecessors, be caught for many winters, and be obliged to consume all his supplies and provisions?</p>
			<p>These fears tormented him; but he had to decide; he put about and started for the south.</p>
			<p>Prince Regent’s Channel is of nearly uniform width from Leopold’s Harbor to Adelaide Bay. The <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Forward</i> went rapidly through the ice, with better fortune than many other ships, most of which required a month to descend the channel, even in a better season; it is true that none of these ships, except the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Fox</i>, had steam at their command, and were obliged to do their best against frequent unfavorable winds.</p>
			<p>The crew seemed overjoyed at leaving the northern regions; they had but a slight desire to reach the Pole; they were alarmed at Hatteras’s plans, for his reputation as a fearless man inspired them with but little confidence. Hatteras tried to make use of every opportunity to go forward, whatever the consequences might be. And yet in these parts, to advance is all very well, but one must also maintain his position and not run the risk of losing it.</p>
			<p>The <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Forward</i> went on under full steam; the black smoke whirled in spirals about the sparkling summits of the icebergs; the weather was changeable, turning from a dry cold to a snowstorm with inconceivable rapidity. Since the brig drew but little water, Hatteras hugged the west shore; he did not want to miss the entrance of Bellot Sound, for the Gulf of Boothia has no other entrance towards the south than the slightly known sound of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Fury</i> and the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Hecla</i>; hence the gulf would be impassable, if Bellot Sound were missed or found impracticable.</p>
			<p>By evening the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Forward</i> was in sight of Elwin Bay, which was recognized by its high, steep cliffs; Tuesday morning Batty Bay was seen, where, on the 10th of September, 1851, the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Prince Albert</i> anchored for the winter. The doctor examined the coast with interest through his glass. From this point started the expeditions which determined the shape of North Somerset. The weather was clear enough for them to see the deep ravines surrounding the bay.</p>
			<p>The doctor and Johnson were probably the only ones who took any interest in these deserted countries. Hatteras, always studying his charts, talked little; his silence increased as the ship drew southward; he often went upon the quarterdeck, and there he would remain for hours, with folded arms, gazing absently at the horizon. His orders, when he gave any, were short and quick. Shandon maintained a cold silence, and drawing more and more into himself, he had nothing more to do with Hatteras than was officially required; James Wall remained devoted to Shandon, and modelled his conduct after that of his friend. The rest of the crew waited for whatever might turn up, ready to make the best use of it for their own profit. On board there was none of the unanimity which is so necessary for the accomplishment of great things. Hatteras knew this well.</p>
			<p>During the day two whales were seen making toward the south; a white bear, too, was saluted with a few rifle-shots, but apparently without success. The captain knew the worth of an hour at that time, and refused permission to chase the animal.</p>
			<p>Wednesday morning the end of Regent Channel was passed; the angle of the west coast was followed by a deep curve in the land. On examining his chart, the doctor recognized Somerset-House Point, or Point Fury.</p>
			<p>“There,” he said to his usual companion⁠—“there is where the first English ship was lost that was sent to these seas in 1815, in Parry’s third voyage; the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Fury</i> was so much injured by the ice in her second winter, that the crew were obliged to abandon her and to return to England in her companion, the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Hecla</i>.”</p>
			<p>“A good reason for having another ship,” answered Johnson; “that is a precaution which polar explorers should not neglect; but Captain Hatteras was not the man to burden himself with a companion!”</p>
			<p>“Do you consider him rash, Johnson?” asked the doctor.</p>
			<p>“I? Oh, I don’t say anything of the sort, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Clawbonny! But see those piles there, with fragments of a tent hanging to them.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, Johnson, it is there Parry unloaded all his ship’s supplies, and, if my memory serves me right, the roof of the hut he built was made out of a mainsail covered by the running-rigging of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Fury</i>.”</p>
			<p>“That must have changed a good deal since 1825.”</p>
			<p>“Not so very much. In 1829, John Ross kept his crew safe and sound in this light building. In 1851, when Prince Albert sent out an expedition, this hut was still standing; Captain Kennedy repaired it nine years ago. It would be interesting to visit it, but Hatteras is unwilling to stop.”</p>
			<p>“And he is probably right, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Clawbonny; if in England time is money, here it is safety, and for the delay of a day, of an hour even, the whole voyage might be rendered useless. We must let him do as he pleases.”</p>
			<p>On Thursday, June 1st, the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Forward</i> sailed diagonally across Creswell Bay; from Point Fury the coast rises in steep rocks three hundred feet high; towards the south, it is lower; a few snowy summits are to be seen, of a regular shape, while others, more fantastic, were hidden in the clouds.</p>
			<p>During that day the weather grew milder, but cloudier; they lost sight of land; the thermometer rose to 32°; a few water-quail were to be seen, and flocks of wild geese flew toward the north; the crew laid aside some of their thick clothes; they began to be aware of the approach of summer in the arctic regions.</p>
			<p>Toward evening the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Forward</i> doubled Cape Garry, a quarter of a mile from the shore. The lead marked ten to twelve fathoms, and they bore along the shore to Brentford Bay. In this latitude they were to find Bellot Sound, a sound which entirely escaped the notice of Sir John Ross in his expedition of 1828; his charts indicated an unbroken coastline, with the least irregularities indicated with the utmost care; hence it is to be supposed that when he passed by the entrance of the sound, it was completely closed with ice and so could not be distinguished from the land.</p>
			<p>This sound was really discovered by Captain Kennedy in an excursion made in April, 1852; he named it after Lieutenant Bellot, as “a just tribute,” as he said, “to the important services rendered to our expedition by the French officer.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
